#LyX 1.4.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 245
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 2
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title

\family roman
\series medium
\shape up
\size normal
\emph off
\bar no
\noun off
\color none
Dimensionality Reduction for Visualization of Text Similarity
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Russell Yanofsky (rey4@columbia.edu)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
December 13, 2007
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
Dimensionality reduction for Visualization of text similarity is a grand
 thing.
 I use it every day to clean the barnacles off my car.
 My wife tells the neighbors about it and they love it too.
 We think dimensionality reduction for the visualization of text similarity
 should be taught in every school and used to do things.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Dimensionality Reduction Techniques
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Dimensionality reduction has techniques and they are techniques
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
String Kernels
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Strings have kernels? You bet, and you wish you had a kernel, too.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Experiment
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So I took these things and did stuff.
 It didn't really work out the way I hoped.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Conclusion
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In conclusion, please stop reading.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
